docs/HowTos/HOWTO-miscellaneous.md, before:

# How-to instructions

Detailed how-to instructions for miscellaneous scenarios.

## Setup from Scratch

The container-based Matomo installation requires a walk through of the web UI to complete the initial setup. This should only need to be done once, and any future deploy/update should be treated like a restore or a migration (see those sections below).

1. Deploy the ECR repository (using [mitlib-tf-workloads-ecr](https://github.com/MITLibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-ecr)).
1. Run `make dist-dev` and `make publish-dev` to create and push this container to the ECR repository.
1. Deploy the ECS/RDS/EFS resources (using [mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo](https://github.com/MITLibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo)).
1. After the ECS service has stabilized, access the Matomo web UI and walk through the 8-step process (you will need to create a superuser and set a couple of basic values).
1. Log back in to the web UI as the super user, navigate to the Settings/Plugins page and **Activate** the EnvironmentVariables plugin. This will update the remaining settings.
1. In the Settings/Plugins, **deactivate** the UserID plugin (see **Data anonymization**  in the [README.md](../README.md)).

## Troubleshooting

It **is** possible to SSH into the Matomo container while it is running in ECS:

```bash
aws ecs execute-command --region {name-of-the-region} --cluster {name-of-the-cluster} --task {task number} --command "/bin/bash" --interactive
```

This can be used for quick checks of the `config.ini.php` file to see if actions in the UI made any modifications. This is also required for doing major version upgrades of Matomo (e.g. from 3.x to 4.x).

Commit message:

Update version and clarify documentation
Increment the version to upgrade Matomo to 4.13.1
Update documentation for clarity

Add detailed upgrade steps
Clarify how to compare ini files
Clarify container/service deployment
Experimented with syntax changes in backup script
  trailing slashes had no effect on output
  there are still nested folders in EFS

Add 2FA reset instructions

  This includes the cli command to reset 2FA for a user account (and
  points to the full documenation at matomo.org).

 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   Dockerfile
	new file:   docs/HowTos/HOWTO-compare-ini-files.md
	modified:   docs/HowTos/HOWTO-matomo-upgrade.md
	modified:   docs/HowTos/HOWTO-miscellaneous.md
	modified:   files/backup-data.sh
	modified:   files/config.ini.php

docs/HowTos/HOWTO-miscellaneous.md, after:

# How-to instructions

Detailed how-to instructions for miscellaneous scenarios.

## Setup from Scratch

The container-based Matomo installation requires a walk through of the web UI to complete the initial setup. This should only need to be done once, and any future deploy/update should be treated like a restore or a migration (see those sections below).

1. Deploy the ECR repository (using [mitlib-tf-workloads-ecr](https://github.com/MITLibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-ecr)).
1. Run `make dist-dev` and `make publish-dev` to create and push this container to the ECR repository.
1. Deploy the ECS/RDS/EFS resources (using [mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo](https://github.com/MITLibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo)).
1. After the ECS service has stabilized, access the Matomo web UI and walk through the 8-step process (you will need to create a superuser and set a couple of basic values).
1. Log back in to the web UI as the super user, navigate to the Settings/Plugins page and **Activate** the EnvironmentVariables plugin. This will update the remaining settings.
1. In the Settings/Plugins, **deactivate** the UserID plugin (see **Data anonymization**  in the [README.md](../README.md)).

## Troubleshooting

It **is** possible to SSH into the Matomo container while it is running in ECS:  `Ensure you have the latest Session Manager plugin installed if you have errors or no output to the following command`

```bash
aws ecs execute-command --region {name-of-the-region} --cluster {name-of-the-cluster} --task {task number} --command "/bin/bash" --interactive
```

This can be used for quick checks of the `config.ini.php` file to see if actions in the UI made any modifications. This is also required for doing major version upgrades of Matomo (e.g. from 3.x to 4.x).

To retrieve the **task number** value for the command:

* Open the AWS Dev1 console in your browser
* Navigate to ECS (Elastic Container Service)
* Click on `matomo-ecs-dev-cluster` (This is also the cluster name for the above command)
* Click on the `Tasks` tab
* Copy the Task number from the list (there should be only one)

OR

```bash
aws ecs list-clusters | grep matomo
aws ecs list-tasks --cluster matomo-ecs-dev-cluster (or result from previous command)
# The task number is the 32 character hex string at the end of the line
```

## Reset 2-Factor auth

If we ever need to reset the 2FA configuration for a user, this is the command to run on the CLI of the container

```bash
./console twofactorauth:disable-2fa-for-user --login=yourlogin
```

See [FAQ_27248](https://matomo.org/faq/how-to/faq_27248/) for more details.
