docs/HowTos/HOWTO-restore-from-backup.md, before:

# How-to instructions

Detailed how-to instructions for restore scenarios.

## Restore from Backup

Most of this is documented in the [Matomo documentation](https://matomo.org/faq/how-to/how-do-i-backup-and-restore-the-matomo-data/). Their instructions rely on `mysqldump`. The details below are specific to MIT Libraries and AWS RDS backups/snapshots.

1. Restore snapshot to new database `matomo-restored`, ensuring that the configuration matches the original (as defined in the [mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo](https://github.com/MITLibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo) code).

    1. Scroll down to the **Snapshots** section on the Database page in RDS for the Matomo database.
    1. Select the snapshot you wish to restore.
    1. Click the Restore button.
    1. Correct the DB Instance Class setting (it defaults to something much too large).
    1. Enter `matomo-restored` in the DB Instance Identifier field.
    1. Remove the `default` VPC Security Group and add the `matomo-mariadb-<env>` VPC Security Group.
    1. The rest of the settings can stay at defaults.
    1. Start the restore and then wait (for about 10 minutes).

1. Modify original RDS database to have a new identifier like `matomo-old`. Note that this will cause your endpoint to change, so your app will lose connectivity when AWS completes the modification.

    1. Click the **Modify** button on the Database page in RDS for the Matomo database.
    1. Change the DB Instance identifier to `matomo-old`
    1. Change the DB parameter group to the `matomo-mariadb-stage-mariadb-102` then click the **Continue** button.
    1. Select the "Apply immediately" option then click the **Modify DB Instance** button.
    1. Wait for about 10 minutes. During this time, the Matomo ECS service will start reporting error since it will lose contact with the database.

1. Modify the `matomo-restored` to have the original database identifier (e.g., `<env>-matomo-rds`). This will change the endpoint to match the original endpoint.

    * Follow the same sequence as above, but change name to `matomo-mariadb-<env>`.

1. Run TfC-triggered `terraform plan` to capture any other changes. Apply the plan to get back in sync.
1. Log in to the Matomo web UI, navigate to the Settings/Plugins and **Activate** the EnvironmentVariables plugin and **Deactivate** the UserID plugin.

Commit message:

Upgrade to Matomo v4.x
Why these changes are being introduced:
Once deployed in the AWS Org, we will need to update from Matomo 3.x to
Matomo 4.x. This in turn means that we will need to update the plugins
in the container.

How this addresses that need:
* Remove the unused global.ini.php file
* Update Dockerfile with new version of EnvironmentVariables
* Update Dockerfile with new version of official Matomo Docker container
source
* Update config.ini.php to remove the incompatible pluging
(CustomPiwik.js) from the configuration (since it doesn't exist in the
Docker container)
* Add CustomVariables plugin to the `files/` folder
* Add Provider plugin to the `files/` folder
* Update Dockerfile to copy the updated CustomVariables and Provider
plugins to the container image
* Remove the Provider plugin from the list of installed plugins
* Clean up the backup-data.sh script
* Update the config.ini.php file
* Include the necessary .htaccess files (that should be automatically
generated by the Matomo install, but aren't) to address the "some
directories are publicly accessible warning"
* Update README.md
* Update the restore-from-backup HowTo

Side effects of this change:
None.

Relevant ticket(s):
* https://mitlibraries.atlassian.net/browse/IN-533
* https://mitlibraries.atlassian.net/browse/IN-534

docs/HowTos/HOWTO-restore-from-backup.md, after:

# How-to instructions

Detailed how-to instructions for restore scenarios.

## Restore from Backup

Most of this is documented in the [Matomo documentation](https://matomo.org/faq/how-to/how-do-i-backup-and-restore-the-matomo-data/). Their instructions rely on `mysqldump`. The details below are specific to MIT Libraries and AWS RDS backups/snapshots.

1. Restore snapshot to new database `matomo-restored`, ensuring that the configuration matches the original (as defined in the [mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo](https://github.com/MITLibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo) code).

    1. Scroll down to the **Snapshots** section on the Database page in RDS for the Matomo database.
    1. Select the snapshot you wish to restore.
    1. Click the Restore button.
    1. Enter `matomo-restored` in the DB Instance Identifier field.
    1. Change the DB Subnet group to `matomo-mariadb-<env>`.
    1. Remove the `default` VPC Security Group and add the `matomo-mariadb-<env>` VPC Security Group.
    1. Correct the DB Instance Class setting (it defaults to something much too large) -- for now we are using `db.t3.medium`.
    1. Verify that the Storage type is set to `gp2`.
    1. The rest of the settings can stay at defaults.
    1. Start the restore and then wait (for about 10 minutes).

1. Modify original RDS database to have a new identifier like `matomo-old`. Note that this will cause your endpoint to change, so your app will lose connectivity when AWS completes the modification.

    1. Click the **Modify** button on the Database page in RDS for the Matomo database.
    1. Change the DB Instance identifier to `matomo-old`
    1. Change the DB parameter group to the `matomo-mariadb-stage-mariadb-<version>` then click the **Continue** button.
    1. Select the "Apply immediately" option then click the **Modify DB Instance** button.
    1. Wait for about 10 minutes. During this time, the Matomo ECS service will start reporting error since it will lose contact with the database.

1. Modify the `matomo-restored` to have the original database identifier (e.g., `matomo-mariadb-<env>`). This will change the endpoint to match the original endpoint.

    * Follow the same sequence as above, but change name to `matomo-mariadb-<env>`.

1. Run TfC-triggered `terraform plan` to capture any other changes. Apply the plan to get back in sync.
1. Log in to the Matomo web UI, navigate to the Settings/Plugins and **Activate** the EnvironmentVariables plugin and **Deactivate** the UserID plugin.
