docs/HowTos/HOWTO-matomo-upgrade.md, before:

# How-to instructions

Detailed how-to instructions for upgrade scenarios.

## Upgrade Database Engine

The database engine is managed by [mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo](https://github.com/mitlibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo). In testing, Matomo had no problems with database engine upgrades through different MariaDB versions.

## Update Matomo version

1. Ensure that a backup of the current `config/config.ini.php` exists in the EFS mount.
1. Publish updated container to ECR.
1. Deploy updated container for ECS service.
1. Verify via webUI that the Matomo installation is ready to be upgraded.
1. SSH (via AWSCLI + Session Manager) to the container and run the upgrade on the CLI (see the [Troubleshooting](./HOWTO-miscellaneous.md) section). It might be possible to do this via the web UI, but there seems to be a timeout issue related to health checks.
1. Copy updated `config/config.ini.php` to the EFS mount.
1. Verify that there were no changes to the `config.ini.php` file that need to be captured here.
1. Relaunch the container.

Commit message:

Upgrade to Matomo 4.x
Why these changes are being introduced:
The current version of Matomo (3.16.1) is woefully out-of-date. This
upgrades to the latest container version (4.12.0) and contains the
additional updates for the included plugins to match the new version of
Matomo.

How this addresses that need:
* Update Dockerfile with the latest version of Matomo from Docker Hub.
* Update the Matomo Upgrade HowTo with a few more details.

Side effects of this change:
After updating the container image in the ECR repository, it will need
to be deployed to the ECS Service via the AWS Console. Once the new
container is deployed, the database upgrade command will need to be
run via an "ssh" session to the new container. Once the database update
is completed, one more command will need to be run from the "ssh"
session on the container to update the tables to the `utf8mb4`
character set.

Relevant ticket(s):
* https://mitlibraries.atlassian.net/browse/IN-537

docs/HowTos/HOWTO-matomo-upgrade.md, after:

# How-to instructions

Detailed how-to instructions for upgrade scenarios.

## Upgrade Database Engine

The database engine is managed by [mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo](https://github.com/mitlibraries/mitlib-tf-workloads-matomo). In testing, Matomo had no problems with database engine upgrades through different MariaDB versions.

## Update Matomo version

1. Ensure that a backup of the current `config/config.ini.php` exists in the EFS mount.
1. Publish updated container to ECR.
1. Deploy updated container for ECS service.
1. Verify via webUI that the Matomo installation is ready to be upgraded.
1. SSH (via AWSCLI + Session Manager) to the container and run the upgrade on the CLI (see the [Troubleshooting](./HOWTO-miscellaneous.md) section for the AWS CLI connection command). The database update command is `php /var/www/html/console core:update`.
1. For the 3.x to 4.x upgrade, there is an additional step to update to the utf8mb4 character set. Once the database upgrade is complete, run `/var/www/html/console core:convert-to-utf8mb4` to update the tables.
1. Copy updated `config/config.ini.php` to the EFS mount.
1. Verify that there were no changes to the `config.ini.php` file that need to be captured back in this repo.
1. Log back in to the webUI to verify that everything is working.
